Setup Guide
===========
## Hosting and Database
- For the demo of this project, we used DigitalOcean cloud hosting and their managed database services.
- You do not have to use DigitalOcean, but for whatever database you use, you must use MongoDB as the program is only built for that.
- In DigitalOcean, we used a droplet for hosting and all of the following things were done from the provided DigitalOcean console.
- For other hosting services, we would recommend speaking with a specialist from those services.
## Downloading prerequisite software
- Go to [this](https://github.com/MartinTAngell/orderlog.git) link and download the projects code.
- Go to [this](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) link to download NPM and NodeJS for your specific operating system.
- Use a terminal to enter the folder with the projects code inside it.
    - Inside this folder, type this
    ```console
    npm i
    ```
    - This will install the packages used by the project
## Setting up authentication
- We want to be able to control which users can create and edit work orders.
- We are going to do that with Auth0, which will allow users to link their Google accounts and save me hours of work developing a custom authentication system that would do the exact same thing.
- First, set up an [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) account.
- Then create a new application under the Regular Web App category using Node.js (Express) as a technology and choose to implement instead of downloading a sample.
- Change "http://localhost:3000" to whatever your websites url is.
- Don't close this webpage yet and don't add the code, it's already there.
## Setting up .env
- We need to set up environment variables so that our app doesn't just connect to the demo's data.
- Start by going into the project folder and creating a file just called ".env"
- The following is the format of the file
```env
# DB Settings
CONNECTION_STRING="connection string"

# Auth0 Information
SECRET_KEY="generated secret key"
BASE_URL="base url"
CLIENT_ID="client id
ISSUER_BASE_URL="issuer url"
```
- You see all the values inside of the quotes, we are goingg to change all of that.
- The connection string should be provided by your database management service, which we will talk about shortly. Make sure that you are using a mongodb database 
- A secret key can be generated by typing the following command into a terminal
```console
openssl rand -hex 32
```
- Put the key it generates into where it says secret key
- Base URL, CLIENT_ID, and ISSUER_BASE_URL all have values that you can find in the web page that you had open earlier. They should be located in what appears like a list of values wrapped in a pair of curly braces.
## Final Setup
- Finally, to turn the website on, type this command in the console.
```console
node app.js
```
- As long as you have the console open this will work, but to keep it open always look into [pm2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/).